README.md, before:

# 🩺 MED GENIE

## An AI Assistant for Health

![GSSoC'25](https://img.shields.io/badge/GSSoC-2025-orange)
![Open Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open--Source-Yes-brightgreen)
![Live](https://img.shields.io/badge/Live-Website-blue)
![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-blue)
![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)

A smart AI-powered medical chatbot that assists users with basic health-related queries and helps guide them during emergencies through natural conversations.

> 🚀 *Live Website:* [https://med-genie-five.vercel.app/](https://med-genie-five.vercel.app/)

---

## 🎯 About the Project

*Med-Genie is an open-source project developed during the Open Source Health Tech Initiative and now selected as a part of GirlScript Summer of Code 2025 (GSSoC'25).*

This chatbot aims to make healthcare assistance more accessible by enabling users to chat naturally with an AI for health advice and emergency information.

>  This project is part of [GirlScript Summer of Code 2025](https://gssoc.girlscript.tech/)



---

## 📸 Demo

Here’s how Med-Genie looks in action:

### 🔹 Welcome Screen
![Welcome Screen](./assets/demo1.png)

### 🔹 Chat in Action
![Chatbot Demo](./assets/demo2.png)

---

## 💡 Features

- 💬 Conversational AI for basic health questions
- 🏥 Hospital & emergency contact guidance
- 📋 Symptom-based suggestion system
- 🌐 Fully responsive web UI
- 🌗 Dark or Light mode toggle for better user experience
- 🔒 Privacy-focused (no user data stored)

---

## 📂 Folder Structure
```text
med-genie/
├── assets/
│   ├── demo1.png
│   └── demo2.png
├── src/
├── .gitignore
├── components.json
├── License.md
├── next-env.d.ts
├── next.config.ts
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── postcss.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── tailwind.config.ts
└── tsconfig.json
```

---



## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** Next.js 15, React 18, TypeScript  
- **UI:** Tailwind CSS, Radix UI components  
- **AI Integration:** Genkit with Google AI (Gemini)  
- **Deployment:** Vercel  
- **SEO:** Comprehensive metadata, Open Graph, Twitter Cards  

---

## 📁 Getting Started

### 🔧 Prerequisites

- Web browser (Chrome, Firefox, etc.)  
- VS Code (optional, for Live Server preview)

### 🧪 Installation

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/aayushraj1010/med-genie.git
cd med-genie

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/your-username/med-genie.git
cd med-genie

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev

# Open http://localhost:9002 in your browser
🔍 SEO & Social Sharing
This project includes comprehensive SEO optimization:

Meta Tags: Complete meta description, keywords, and author information

Open Graph: Facebook and social media sharing optimization

Twitter Cards: Optimized Twitter sharing with large image cards

Structured Data: JSON-LD schema markup for better search engine understanding

Sitemap: XML sitemap for search engine indexing

Robots.txt: Search engine crawling instructions

PWA Support: Web app manifest for mobile installation

Favicon: Multiple favicon formats for different devices

SEO Features Implemented:
✅ Comprehensive Metadata

Title templates and descriptions

Keywords and author information

Canonical URLs

✅ Social Media Optimization

Open Graph tags for Facebook/LinkedIn

Twitter Card tags for Twitter

Social sharing images

✅ Search Engine Optimization

Structured data (JSON-LD)

Sitemap.xml

Robots.txt

Meta robots directives

✅ Mobile & PWA Support

Web app manifest

Apple touch icons

Theme colors

Viewport optimization

📝 License
Released under the MIT License.
You’re free to use, modify, and distribute this software with proper attribution.

yaml
Copy
Edit

---

### 🛠 What You Should Do on GitHub:

1. Click **“Resolve conflicts”** on the PR.
2. Replace the entire conflicted block with the version above.
3. Click **“Mark as resolved”**
4. Click **“Commit merge”**

---

If you’re still maintaining an alternate HTML version for legacy purposes, I can also help add both options side-by-side. Otherwise, the above version is best for a **Next.js-first production app**. Let me know if you want that version too.

Commit message:

Speech-to-Text and Text-to-Speech functionality added for ChatBot

README.md, after:

# 🩺 MED GENIE

## An AI Assistant for Health

![GSSoC'25](https://img.shields.io/badge/GSSoC-2025-orange)
![Open Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open--Source-Yes-brightgreen)
![Live](https://img.shields.io/badge/Live-Website-blue)
![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-blue)
![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)

A smart AI-powered medical chatbot that assists users with basic health-related queries and helps guide them during emergencies through natural conversations.

> 🚀 *Live Website:* [https://med-genie-five.vercel.app/](https://med-genie-five.vercel.app/)

---

## 🎯 About the Project

*Med-Genie is an open-source project developed during the Open Source Health Tech Initiative and now selected as a part of GirlScript Summer of Code 2025 (GSSoC'25).*

This chatbot aims to make healthcare assistance more accessible by enabling users to chat naturally with an AI for health advice and emergency information.

>  This project is part of [GirlScript Summer of Code 2025](https://gssoc.girlscript.tech/)



---

## 📸 Demo

Here’s how Med-Genie looks in action:

### 🔹 Welcome Screen
![Welcome Screen](./assets/demo1.png)

### 🔹 Chat in Action
![Chatbot Demo](./assets/demo2.png)

---

## 💡 Features

- 💬 Conversational AI for basic health questions
- 🎤 Voice input with speech-to-text functionality
- 🔊 Text-to-speech for AI responses
- 🎛️ Voice settings with auto-speak options
- 🏥 Hospital & emergency contact guidance
- 📋 Symptom-based suggestion system
- 🌐 Fully responsive web UI
- 🌗 Dark or Light mode toggle for better user experience
- 🔒 Privacy-focused (no user data stored)

---

## 📂 Folder Structure
```text
med-genie/
├── assets/
│   ├── demo1.png
│   └── demo2.png
├── src/
├── .gitignore
├── components.json
├── License.md
├── next-env.d.ts
├── next.config.ts
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── postcss.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── tailwind.config.ts
└── tsconfig.json
```

---



## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** Next.js 15, React 18, TypeScript  
- **UI:** Tailwind CSS, Radix UI components  
- **AI Integration:** Genkit with Google AI (Gemini)  
- **Deployment:** Vercel  
- **SEO:** Comprehensive metadata, Open Graph, Twitter Cards  

---

## 📁 Getting Started

### 🔧 Prerequisites

- Web browser (Chrome, Firefox, etc.)  
- VS Code (optional, for Live Server preview)

### 🧪 Installation

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/aayushraj1010/med-genie.git
cd med-genie

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/your-username/med-genie.git
cd med-genie

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev

# Open http://localhost:9002 in your browser
🔍 SEO & Social Sharing
This project includes comprehensive SEO optimization:

Meta Tags: Complete meta description, keywords, and author information

Open Graph: Facebook and social media sharing optimization

Twitter Cards: Optimized Twitter sharing with large image cards

Structured Data: JSON-LD schema markup for better search engine understanding

Sitemap: XML sitemap for search engine indexing

Robots.txt: Search engine crawling instructions

PWA Support: Web app manifest for mobile installation

Favicon: Multiple favicon formats for different devices

SEO Features Implemented:
✅ Comprehensive Metadata

Title templates and descriptions

Keywords and author information

Canonical URLs

✅ Social Media Optimization

Open Graph tags for Facebook/LinkedIn

Twitter Card tags for Twitter

Social sharing images

✅ Search Engine Optimization

Structured data (JSON-LD)

Sitemap.xml

Robots.txt

Meta robots directives

✅ Mobile & PWA Support

Web app manifest

Apple touch icons

Theme colors

Viewport optimization

📝 License
Released under the MIT License.
You’re free to use, modify, and distribute this software with proper attribution.

yaml
Copy
Edit

---

### 🛠 What You Should Do on GitHub:

1. Click **“Resolve conflicts”** on the PR.
2. Replace the entire conflicted block with the version above.
3. Click **“Mark as resolved”**
4. Click **“Commit merge”**

---

If you’re still maintaining an alternate HTML version for legacy purposes, I can also help add both options side-by-side. Otherwise, the above version is best for a **Next.js-first production app**. Let me know if you want that version too.
